# source: act_trust2007.pdf
# url: https://www.sec.or.th/EN/Documents/ActandRoyalEnactment/Act/act_trust2007.pdf
# sha256: fc25c9039e7c56c749c4f8b94dbba5e2bebbafdafdb4d22fe17905d85df742d6
# extracted: 2026-09-03 by pdftotext (poppler)
# STATUS: working copy. The PDF is authoritative. Verify any quotation,
#   section number or gazette date against the PDF before it ships.
# NOTE: Thai extraction inserts spurious spaces inside words (e.g. "นิ ติบุคคล")
#   and may decompose combining marks. Do not quote Thai from this file without
#   checking it against the PDF or a rendered page image.

                                                                     UNOFFICIAL


                                         (Translation)

                    The Trust for Transactions in Capital Market Act
                                    B.E. 2550 (2007)
                                   ________________

                          BHUMIBOL ADULYADEJ, REX.,
                      Given on the 30th Day of December B.E. 2550;
                        Being the 62nd Year of the Present Reign.

His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej is graciously pleased to proclaim that:

Whereas it is expedient to enact a law on the trust for transactions in the capital market;

Whereas this Act contains certain provisions relating to the restriction of rights and liberties
of persons, which Section 29, in conjunction with Section 32, Section 33, Section 41, and
Section 43 of the Constitutions of the Kingdom of Thailand so permit by virtue of law;

Be it, therefore, enacted by His Majesty the King, by and with the advice and consent of
the National Legislative Assembly, as follows:

SECTION 1 This Act shall be called the “the Trust for Transactions in Capital Market
Act B.E. 2550.”

SECTION 2 This Act shall come into force after ninety days from the date of its
publication in the Government Gazette, except Section 3, Section 4, Section 5, Section 6,
Section 7, Section 8, Section 9, Section 54, Section 55, Section 56, Section 57, Section 77,
and Section 78 which shall come into force on the day following the date of its publication
in the Government Gazette.

SECTION 3 In this Act:

“trust” means legal relationship arising from a trust instrument

“trust instrument” means a contract whereby a person, called a settlor, transfers or creates
real right or any right appertaining to property to or for another person, called a trustee,
with trust and confidence in order that the trustee shall manage such property for the
benefit of beneficiaries. This meaning includes a document showing the intention to create
trust whereby a settlor and a trustee are the same person.

“trust property” means any property as specified in a trust instrument, including any
property, interest, debt and liability arising from management of a trust in compliance with
a trust instrument or this Act.

_______________________________________________________________________
This English translation of the Trust for Transactions in Capital Market Act B.E. 2550
was prepared by staff members of the SEC Office. Readers should be aware that only the
original Thai text has legal force and that English translation is strictly for reference. Please
also note that the translation has not been subjected to an official review by the SEC Office,
which can neither undertake any responsibility for its accuracy nor be held liable for any
loss or damages arising from or related to its use.

                                                                                               1
                                                                     UNOFFICIAL



“SEC” means the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities and Exchange
Act.

“SEC Office” means the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Securities and Exchange Act.

 “competent officer” means any person appointed by the Minister to perform duties under
this Act.

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of this Act.

SECTION 4 A trust may be created for the benefit of transactions in the capital market as
specified in the notification of the SEC in relation to the following transactions:
(1)    the issuance of securities under the Securities and Exchange Act;
(2)    the securitization under the Royal Enactment on Special Purpose Juristic Persons
for Securitization;
(3)    other transactions which are supportive or beneficial to capital market development.

SECTION 5 The SEC and the SEC Office shall issue a notification to the general public
stipulating the period for consideration and making of order with respect to the issuance of
license and granting of approval under this Act.

SECTION 6 All rules, regulations, notifications, directives or stipulations issued under
this Act by the SEC or the SEC Office which are of general application shall come into
force upon their publication in the Government Gazette.

SECTION 7 The Minister of Finance shall be in charge of this Act and shall have the
power to issue notifications and appoint competent officers to perform duties under this
Act.

Such notifications shall come into force upon publication in the Government Gazette.


                                       Chapter 1
                Supervision of Trust for Transactions in Capital Market
                                 __________________

SECTION 8 The SEC shall have the power and duty to formulate policies to promote,
develop and supervise trust for transactions in the capital market. Such power and duty
shall include:
(1)    the issuance of rules, regulations, notifications, orders, directives or stipulations
under this Act;
(2)    the determination of application fees, approval fees or operating fees for business
undertaking under this Act;
(3)    the prescription of guidelines for consideration of any issues that may arise from the
enforcement of this Act.



                                                                                               2
                                                                    UNOFFICIAL


SECTION 9 The SEC Office shall have the power and duty to perform any act necessary
for the implementation of the SEC’s resolutions and to perform any other acts under the
provisions of this Act. Such power and duty shall include:
(1)    the issuance of notifications or orders pursuant to this Act;
(2)    the receipt of administrative fines imposed and fees charged under this Act;

All fines and fees received under subsection (2) shall be properties of the SEC Office.

SECTION 10 The SEC Office shall have the duty to disclose information relating to any
violation and penalty imposed on the violators under this Act.

The disclosure of any other information obtained in the performance of duties under this
Act shall be in accordance with the rules specified in the notification of the SEC.


                                         Chapter 2
                                      Creation of Trust
                                      ______________
                                         Division 1
                                      Trust Instrument
                                       _____________

SECTION 11 A trust is created when a written contract is made and a settlor transfers
property or creates real right or any right appertaining to property constituting trust
property to or for a trustee.

In cases where a settlor makes a declaration to act in trusteeship, a trust shall be created
where a written declaration to create the trust has been made and submitted to the SEC
Office by the settlor, in accordance with the rules specified in the notification of the SEC.

SECTION 12 A settlor shall be any of the following juristic persons:
(1)    company issuing securities under the Securities and Exchange Act;
(2)     originator under the Royal Enactment on Special Purpose Juristic Persons for
Securitization;
(3)    juristic person having the qualifications specified in the notification of the SEC.

SECTION 13 A trust instrument shall not allow a settlor or a trustee to be a beneficiary
unless there is another beneficiary or other beneficiaries, and the settlor or the trustee, by
virtue of beneficiary, receives interest from the trust property not more than the proportion
specified in the notification of the SEC.

In cases where the settlor or the trustee, by virtue of beneficiary, receives interest more than
the proportion specified in the first paragraph, the interest shall be allocated to another
beneficiary or other beneficiaries.




                                                                                                 3
                                                                    UNOFFICIAL


SECTION 14 A trust instrument without the following particulars and statements shall
be void:
(1)    names of a settlor and a trustee;
(2)    beneficiary identifiable by name, qualification or any character that specifies
beneficiaries of trust;
(3)    objectives of trust;
(4)    property constituting trust property.

SECTION 15 The SEC Office may issue notifications specifying particulars and
statements of trust instrument in addition to those specified in Section 14.

SECTION 16 The creation of trust in the following manners shall be void:
(1)    the creation of trust in contrary to Section 11 or Section 12;
(2)    the creation of trust assigning trusteeship to a person without an approval to
undertake trust business under this Act, or a trustee temporarily suspended from
undertaking of trust business or whose approval to undertake trust business revoked or
prohibited to engage in a trust instrument.

SECTION 17 No provision in a trust instrument shall contravene this Act. Any provisions
in the trust instrument that contravene this Act shall be void.


                                         Division 2
                               Effects of Creation of Trust
                                    ________________

SECTION 18 When a trust is created, rights and duties of the settlor, the trustee and the
beneficiary shall be as follows:
(1)    the settlor shall have rights and duties only as specified in the trust instrument;
(2)    the trustee shall have legal right over trust property as an owner of the property or a
person entitled to the right over the property, and shall have the duty to manage the trust
property in accordance with the trust instrument and this Act;
(3)      the beneficiary shall have the right to receive benefits arising from the management
of trust property and any rights as specified in the trust instrument and this Act.

SECTION 19 In cases where the settlor, the trustee or the beneficiary of a trust dies,
becomes insolvent, becomes dissolved or ceases to be a juristic person or where the trustee
of a trust has been altered, the trust shall not be affected unless the trust instrument
provides otherwise.




                                                                                             4
                                                                     UNOFFICIAL


                                     Division 3
               Amendment to Trust Instrument and Alteration of Trustee
                             _____________________

SECTION 20 An amendment to a trust instrument shall be made as provided by its terms
and conditions. In absence of such terms and conditions, the beneficiary and the trustee
may mutually agree to amend the trust instrument to the extent that it is not contrary to the
purpose of the creation of trust.

SECTION 21 In cases where the SEC Office has issued notifications specifying additional
particulars and statements under Section 15, the SEC Office shall have the power to direct
the trustee to add such particulars and statements to the trust instrument within a reasonable
period of time if it is appropriate for the benefit of the beneficiary, and not contrary to the
purpose of the creation of trust.

The trustee shall amend the trust instrument as directed in the first paragraph in accordance
with the procedures specified in Section 20 or with the SEC Office’s approval.

SECTION 22 An alteration of trustee shall be made as provided by the terms and
conditions of the trust instrument or when any of the following causes occurs:
(1)    the trustee resigns;
(2)  the trustee is under receivership, ceases to be a juristic person, or ceases to be a
commercial bank;
(3)    the trustee is dismissed from trusteeship;
(4)    the SEC temporarily suspends the trustee’s undertaking of trust business, or revokes
the approval granted to the trustee to undertake trust business.

SECTION 23 A trustee may resign or be dismissed from trusteeship as provided by the
terms and conditions of the trust instrument. In the absence of such terms and conditions,
resignation or dismissal of trustee shall comply with the following conditions:
(1)     the trustee shall, in writing, notify the beneficiary of its resignation in compliance
with the rules and period as specified in the notification of the SEC Office, provided that
the resignation shall not cause damages to the beneficiary;
(2)     when there is evidence that the trustee fails to perform the duties specified by the
trust instrument or this Act, the beneficiary may remove the trustee in accordance with the
procedures and conditions as specified in the notification of the SEC Office.

SECTION 24 An appointment of a new trustee shall be made as provided by the terms and
conditions of the trust instrument. In the absence of such terms and conditions, the
appointment of a new trustee shall be made in accordance with the rules as specified in the
notification of the SEC Office.

SECTION 25 In cases where the trust instrument appoints a sole trustee or several trustees
and specifies each trustee to separately manages the trust property, if there is a cause to
alter the trustee but the new trustee has not yet been appointed, unless the trust instrument
provides otherwise, the trust property shall be managed during such period in compliance
with the following criteria:


                                                                                                 5
                                                                    UNOFFICIAL


(1)     in cases where the trustee resigns, the former trustee shall perform its duties until
the trust property is completely vested in a new trustee;
(2)    in cases where the trustee is dissolved or liquidated or suspended from its
undertaking of any business or bankrupt, a receiver, a liquidator or any other person
empowered by law to act in the similar capacity as the aforementioned persons, as the case
may be, shall undertake necessary and appropriate actions until a new trustee is completely
vested with the trust property;
(3) in cases where the trustee is dismissed, temporarily suspended from its undertaking of
trust business or whose approval to undertake trust business revoked by the SEC, the
former trustee shall perform its duties only to protect the benefits or exercise the right over
the trust property to prevent the trust property from damage, depreciation or uselessness
until the new trustee is completely vested with the trust property.

SECTION 26 In case of alteration of trustee, the former trustee or the surviving trustee
shall undertake all actions necessary to vest the new trustee with the right over the trust
property and to allow the new trustee to learn of the previous and onward management as
well as deliver documents, evidence and any information relating to the management of
the trust property in order to enable the new trustee to perform its duties. In so doing, the
former trustee or the surviving trustee, as the case may be, shall sign a statement certifying
the correctness and completeness of things delivered to the new trustee and delivers such
statement to the new trustee.

The former trustee or the surviving trustee shall undertake all actions under the first
paragraph within thirty days from the date on which the new trustee takes its trusteeship.

If the former trustee or the surviving trustee fails to undertake the actions within the period
specified in the previous paragraph, the new trustee shall file a motion with the court to
issue an order to declare that the new trustee has been fully vested with the trust property.

In cases where the former trustee or the surviving trustee fails to undertake the actions
under the first paragraph, if there is damage to the trust property or the beneficiary,
the former trustee or the surviving trustee shall be liable to such damage. The beneficiary
may claim compensation from the former trustee or the surviving trustee for the benefit of
the trust property if damage to the trust property occurs and the new trustee has not yet
been fully vested with the trust property in accordance with Section 27.

SECTION 27 The new trustee shall subrogate the rights and duties of the former trustee or
exercise the rights and duties jointly with the surviving trustee, as the case may be, and
become a co-party in a lawsuit or a party to whom the court’s judgment is bound, when the
new trustee is completely vested with the trust property.

SECTION 28 The new trustee shall notify in writing to the third person known to the new
trustee as the party in the agreement made with the former trustee or the surviving trustee,
that the new trustee has subrogated the rights and liabilities of the former trustee or,
together with the surviving trustee, retains the rights and liabilities as such.

In cases where the failure of the new trustee to perform the duties under the first paragraph
causes damage, the new trustee shall compensate the trust property or the third person for
such damage, as the case may be.


                                                                                                6
                                                                    UNOFFICIAL


SECTION 29 In cases where there is a cause of alteration of trustee but the appointment
of a new trustee cannot be proceeded due to an inevitable cause, an interested party may
file a motion with the court for the appointment of the new trustee. If the new trustee
cannot be appointed by the court, the court shall terminate the trust and appoint any person
to manage the trust property in accordance with Section 52.

An appeal of court’s ruling under the first paragraph shall be submitted to the supreme
court.


                                        Chapter 3
                           Right, Duty and Liability of Trustee
                                     ____________

SECTION 30 For the highest benefit of beneficiaries, a trustee has the duty to manage a
trust with integrity and prudence as a professional with expertise by providing fair
treatment to beneficiaries.

In furtherance of the performance of the trustee’s duty under the first paragraph, the SEC
shall have the power to specify in details the trustee’s duty.

A trust instrument shall contain no clauses exempting the trustee from liability arising from
failure to perform the duty under the first paragraph with intention, dishonesty or gross
negligence.

SECTION 31 In managing a trust, a trustee shall be prohibited to act in conflict of interest
with the trust regardless of whether such act is done for the benefit of its own or others’,
except where it is the trustee’s claim for its remuneration or where the trustee is able to
show that the trust is managed with fairness under which all related information has been
sufficiently disclosed to beneficiaries who thereafter hold no objection to the act. The
disclosure and objection shall subject to the rules specified in the notification of the SEC
Office.

SECTION 32 A trustee shall be prohibited to set off the obligation arising beyond the
performance in trusteeship owed by the trustee to a third person against the obligation
arising from the management of trust owed to the trust by the third person.

The set-off in contravention of the first paragraph is void.

SECTION 33 In making a juristic act or a transaction with a third person, a trustee shall
notify the third party in writing that it acts in trusteeship and expressly stipulates the
information as such in the evidence of the juristic act or the transaction.

SECTION 34 A trustee shall prepare an account of trust property separately from any
other accounts under its responsibility. In cases where a trustee manages several trusts, the
trustee shall prepare the account of trust property of each trust separately. In doing so, the
trustee shall keep such account correct and up-to-date.




                                                                                                 7
                                                                    UNOFFICIAL


In managing a trust, a trustee shall segregate the trust property from those held in its own
capacity and any property in its possession. In cases where the trustee manages several
trusts, the trustee shall segregate the trust property of one trust from another.

SECTION 35 In cases where a trustee fails to perform the duty under Section 34 which
causes the trust property to be commingled with the property held in its own capacity in the
manner that it is unable to distinguish the trust property from those held in the trustee’s
own capacity, it shall be presumed that:
(1)    the commingled property is held in trust;
(2)     the damage and liability arising from the management of commingled property are
the trustee’s own bearing;
(3)    the benefit arising from commingled property belongs to the trust.

The commingled property under the first paragraph shall include the property that is
transformed into a different form or state.

SECTION 36 In cases where a trustee fails to perform duty under Section 34 which causes
the trust property of two or more trusts to be commingled in the manner that it is unable to
identify to which respective trust the property belongs, it shall be presumed that the
commingled property, including property that is transformed into a different form or state,
and any benefits or obligations incurred from the management of such commingled
property shall belong to each trust in proportion of an amount brought to commingle.

SECTION 37 Management of trust is a trustee’s personal duty.

A trustee shall not delegate its duty to other persons except where:
(1)    the trust instrument provides otherwise;
(2)    it is a transaction that is not personal in nature and needs no capability of trustee’s
profession;
(3)    it is a transaction that a reasonable prudent owner of the property of the same
characteristics as the trust property, who manages such property with similar objectives to
those of the trust, may delegate a third person to manage such property;
(4)    any other cases as specified by the SEC in its notification as delegable matters.

In cases where the trustee contravenes the first paragraph, the management shall bind the
trustee personally, and not bind the trust.

SECTION 38 In cases where a trustee delegates any other person to manage trust property
under Section 37, the trustee shall thoroughly and carefully select such person as well as
supervise and audit the delegated management adequately. The SEC shall have the power
to prescribe in its notifications details for compliance of the trustee in the said matter.

SECTION 39 In cases where several trustees are appointed, the trustees shall jointly
manage the trust unless the trust instrument provides the duties of each trustee specifically.




                                                                                                 8
                                                                     UNOFFICIAL


The trustees’ joint management of trust shall be as follows:
(1)     in cases where there is title deed or document of title of trust property, all trustees
shall be named as the co-owners of real right or any rights in such deed or document;
(2)     in cases where a resolution is required, such resolution shall be unanimous unless
the trust instrument provides otherwise.

The trustee shall be bound personally for any obligations or liabilities incurred from the
juristic act done in breach of the resolution specified in subsection (2).

SECTION 40 In case of alteration of a trustee, if the new trustee finds that the previous
management of the trust has contravened the trust instrument or this Act and caused
damage to the trust, the new trustee shall have the following duties:
(1)     to claim damages from a liable trustee;
(2) to recover a property from a third person regardless of whether such third person
directly acquired such property from the former trustee and whether such property is
transformed into a different form or state, except the acquisition of the property was done
in good faith and for value, providing further that the person acquired that property did not
know or should not have known that the acquired property has been disposed or transferred
in breach of trust.

SECTION 41 In managing a trust or delegating any person to manage a trust in accordance
with Section 37, if there is any expenses, proceeds or other properties obliged to pay a third
person which a trustee rightfully pays from property held in its own capacity with due
necessity, the trustee shall be entitled to obtain reimbursement from proceeds or property
out of the trust property unless the trust instrument specifies that the payment shall be
borne by the trustee.

The right to obtain reimbursement from the proceeds or property under the first paragraph
shall have priority over the claim of a beneficiary and the claim of a third person against
the trust property and may be immediately exercised, at any time before the trust is
terminated. In cases where the transformation of trust property is necessary in order to
reimburse the proceeds or property to the trustee, the trustee is empowered to do so but
only to the extent that it is done in good faith.

For the purpose of protecting the trust property, the SEC shall have the power to issue
notifications prescribing rules, conditions and procedures concerning the payment of the
trustee’s own money or property to the third person under the first paragraph or the
exercise of trustee’s right under the second paragraph.

SECTION 42 A trustee shall be prohibited from exercising the right under Section 41
unless the trustee has performed all of its obligations owed to the trust except where those
obligations can be set off under the Civil and Commercial Code.

SECTION 43 In cases where a trustee fails to manage the trust in accordance with the trust
instrument or this Act, the trustee shall be liable to indemnify the trust.

In cases where it is necessary and there is a reasonable ground for the benefit of the trust,
the trustee may apply for the SEC Office’s approval prior to the management of trust in a
different manner from those stipulated in the trust instrument. The trustee shall not be
                                                                                                  9
                                                                    UNOFFICIAL


liable under the first paragraph if the trustee manages the trust property as approved, in
good faith and for the best interest of the trust.

In case of joint management of the trust by several trustees under Section 39, all trustees
shall have joint liability under the first paragraph provided, however, that liability amongst
the trustees shall not apply the principle of joint debtor, but shall be in accordance with the
terms as agreed by those trustees. Whatever agreed, any trustee shall not be liable to other
trustees, if proven that it had objected or had been defrauded in failing to comply with the
trust instrument or this Act.


                                        Chapter 4
                            Right and Protection of Beneficiary
                                    ________________

SECTION 44 Subject to Section 40 and the second paragraph of Section 43, a beneficiary
has the right to demand a trustee to manage a trust in accordance with the trust instrument
or this Act and to claim compensation for the benefit of the trust, in cases where the trustee
fails to manage the trust in accordance with the trust instrument or this Act.

In cases where the trustee fails to manage the trust in accordance with the trust instrument
or this Act and causes the trust property to be disposed or transferred to any other person,
the beneficiary shall be entitled to trace and recover such property from any person
regardless of whether such person directly acquired such property from the trustee and
whether the trust property was transformed into a different form or state, unless the
acquisition of the property was done in good faith and for value, providing further that the
person acquired that property did not know or should not have known that the acquired
property has been disposed or transferred in breach of trust.

The beneficiary shall be entitled to be reimbursed for any actual expenses incurring from
exercising right under the first and second paragraphs from the trust in an amount as
ordered by the court.

SECTION 45 Any person, acquired property from a trust or assisted in transferring of the
trust property if knew or should have known that a trustee had transferred property in
contravention to the trust instrument or this Act and such transferring has caused damage to
the trust, shall jointly with the trustee under Section 44 be liable as joint debtors. A
beneficiary shall be entitled to claim compensation from such person for the benefit of the
trust. The provision of the third paragraph of Section 44 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

With respect to the liability under the first paragraph, the court shall determine an amount
of liability for such person as the court thinks fit by considering circumstances in which
such person’s participation causing damage to the trust property.

SECTION 46 In cases where a beneficiary has notified the new trustee to perform duty
under Section 40 within a reasonable period of time but the new trustee fails to perform
duty within such period, the beneficiary shall be entitled to claim compensation from the
liable trustee or trace and recover property from a third person, as the case may be, for the
benefit of the trust, and the provisions of the third paragraph of Section 44 shall apply
mutatis mutandis.


                                                                                             10
                                                                   UNOFFICIAL


SECTION 47 A beneficiary shall be entitled to inspect and make copy of an account of
trust property or any document as specified in the notification of the SEC Office during the
business hours of a trustee.

The trustee may be reimbursed for the actual and necessary expense of the copying under
the first paragraph but not more than the rate specified in the notification of the SEC
Office.

SECTION 48 In cases where several beneficiaries have the right to obtain an interest
specified under the second paragraph of Section 13 or to obtain the remaining property
after the trust is terminated under the third paragraph of Section 53, unless the trust
instrument provides otherwise, each beneficiary shall obtain such interest or property in
proportion to the benefit which each beneficiary is entitled to obtain from the trust as
specified in the trust instrument.

SECTION 49 Unless a trust instrument provides otherwise, in case where there are several
beneficiaries, exercise of such beneficiaries right under this Act shall be under the
following criteria:
(1)      the amendment to the trust instrument under Section 20 or Section 21, the removal
of the trustee under Section 23(2), the appointment of the new trustee under Section 24 or
filing of the motion for termination of trust under Section 51(2), can be made only by
approval from the beneficiaries having interest in the trust property not less than three-
fourth of all interest in the trust property.
(2)      the claim of compensation for the benefit of the trust property under the fourth
paragraph of Section 26, the motion for imposing the trustee to perform duty in accordance
with the trust instrument or this Act, the claim of compensation for the trust or the recovery
of the trust property under Section 44, Section 45 or Section 46, can be exercised by any
individual beneficiary.

SECTION 50 Trust property shall not be divided amongst personal creditors of a trustee.

In cases where a trustee becomes bankrupt as a result of its own debt or ceases to be a
juristic person, the trust property shall not be deemed as bankruptcy estate or property in
liquidation, as the case may be.


                                       Chapter 5
                                   Termination of Trust
                                     _____________

SECTION 51 A trust shall come into termination as specified in the trust instrument and in
the following cases:
(1)    a purpose of the trust instrument has been accomplished;
(2)     a court gives a judgment or grants an order to terminate the trust under Section 29
or as requested by a trustee or a beneficiary;
(3)    the trustee remains the only beneficiary;
(4)   the causes of alteration of the trustee under Section 22(1) (2) (3) or (4) occurs
whereas the trust instrument prohibits alteration of the trustee.


                                                                                              11
                                                                    UNOFFICIAL



SECTION 52 Subject to Section 29, a trustee shall perform its duty in order to collect,
dispose and allocate property in accordance with Section 53 upon termination of trust,
except where dissolution, liquidation or bankruptcy of the trustee causes the termination of
trust, a liquidator or an official receiver of the trustee, as the case may be, shall perform
such duty.

SECTION 53 The payment of debts and expenses upon termination of trust shall be in the
following orders:
(1)    the expenses accruing from collecting, disposing of and distribution of property;
(2)    the fees and tax that have to pay or due;
(3)     the consideration of the person under Section 29 or Section 52, the expenses in
taking legal action having been borne by a beneficiary under the third paragraph of Section
44, Section 45 or Section 46 and the expenses accruing in the management of the trust
which the trustee can rightfully claim from the trust property, and consideration of trustee;
(4)    other debts.

If the trust property is insufficient to pay expenses or debts in any order, the payment shall
be allocated proportionally in such the order.

The remaining of the trust property after the payment under the first paragraph shall be
allocated to the persons specified in the trust instrument or to the beneficiary, if not so
specified.

Section 42 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the payment of debt to the trustee under the first
paragraph.

The SEC Office has the power to specify in its notification the rules, conditions and
procedures relating to collection, disposal or allocation of the property specified under the
first paragraph.


                                         Chapter 6
                                   Supervision of Trustee
                                     ________________
                                         Division 1
                                         Approval
                                     ________________

SECTION 54 No person shall undertake trust business without an approval from the SEC.

SECTION 55 A person eligible to apply for an approval to undertake trust business
shall be:
(1)    a commercial bank under the Commercial Banking Act;
(2)    a financial institution established under specific law;
(3)    any juristic person as specified in the notification of the SEC.


                                                                                              12
                                                                   UNOFFICIAL


The person applying for the approval under the first paragraph shall have financial
condition, operating system, qualification and paying fees as specified in the notification of
the SEC.

The SEC Office shall publish the names of the trustees approved to undertake trust
business.

SECTION 56 Where it is necessary to maintain integrity or trustworthiness of the system
of trust business, the SEC shall have the power to specify conditions for undertaking trust
business.

In cases where there has been a change in the necessary circumstance as provided in the
first paragraph, the SEC may modify or change the conditions already specified.


                                        Division 2
                            Supervision of Business Operation
                                   ________________

SECTION 57 In managing a trust, a trustee shall have appropriate operating systems to :
(1)    segregate between trust property and the property held in its own capacity ;
(2)    manage the trust property in accordance with the trust instrument and this Act;
(3)      record the ownership or right over the trust property, incomes, expenses and debts
of the trust and any relating accounts of the trust;
(4)    oversee and collect interest of the trust;
(5)    allocate interest to beneficiaries;
(6)    control, audit and prevent the management of trust from contravention to the trust
instrument and this Act as well as the management of trust property in dishonest manner;
(7)    any other operating systems as the SEC may stipulate in its notification.

SECTION 58 In furtherance of the interest of the beneficiary or protect the third person
engaging in juristic acts with a trustee, the SEC shall have the power to specify in its
notification the rules relating to the power and duty of the trustee, the maintenance of the
financial condition of the trustee, indemnity insurance for liability of the trustee and the
submission of report or any documents to the SEC Office.

SECTION 59 A trustee shall prepare financial statements of a trust segregating the
property held in trust from that held in its own capacity, with consideration to the
accounting standard as specified by the law relating to the accounting profession.

The financial statements under the first paragraph must be audited and given opinion by an
auditor approved by the SEC Office, and such auditor must not be a director, an officer, or
an employee of a trustee.

The financial statements under the first paragraph shall be submitted to the SEC Office and
the SEC Office may disclose or direct the trustee to disclose financial statements publicly
in accordance with the rules specified in the notification of the SEC Office.


                                                                                               13
                                                                    UNOFFICIAL


The SEC shall have the power to specify in its notification the cases where it is proper not
to prepare the financial statements under the first paragraph, whereby the conditions with
which the trustee shall comply may also be prescribed.

SECTION 60 In order to prevent or cease the damage to a trust or the public, the SEC
Office shall have the power to direct a trustee to act or refrain from acting within the
prescribed period of time, in cases where its director, manager, officer, employee, agent or
delegate acts or causes the trustee to act as follows:
(1)    fail to perform the duty of the trustee under the trust instrument or this Act;
(2)    manage the trust property inappropriately manner or cause damage to the trust.
(3)    fail to submit reports or documents specified by the SEC’s notification under
Section 58;
(4)    fail to meet the conditions under Section 56.


SECTION 61 In avoidance of conflicts with other laws when applying trust for
transactions in the capital market, it shall proceed as follows:
(1)     in cases where a trustee prepares an account of property and segregate the trust
property in compliance with Section 34, the regulator under the law relating to the
supervision of commercial banks or financial institutions, law relating to securities and
exchange or any law prescribed by ministerial regulation shall not consider or compute the
trust property as the property held in the trustee’s own capacity to satisfy any duty or
requirement imposed on the trustee under such laws;
(2)     in furtherance of the spirit of the laws specified under (1), the Minister upon
recommendation of the regulators under such laws shall have the power to issue ministerial
regulations governing consideration or computation of the trust property as the property of
beneficiaries for the purpose of complying with any requirement of such laws.


                                        Chapter 7
                                     Competent Officer
                                      _____________

SECTION 62 In the execution of his duties, a competent officer shall have the following
power to:
(1)     enter into the business place of a trustee or the place where the data of a trustee is
collected or processed during the hours between sunrise and sunset or during the business
hours of such places in order to examine the operating of trust business, including
collecting the relevant documents, evidence or information;
(2)     enter into a commercial bank or a financial institution during the hours between
sunrise and sunset, or during the business hours of such places, to inspect accounts,
documents, or evidence which may be related to the inspection or the execution under this
Act;
(3)     search any place where there is a reasonable ground to believe that there is a
commission of offence under this Act during the hours between sunrise and sunset or
during the business hours of such place;


                                                                                             14
                                                                     UNOFFICIAL


(4)     attach documents or evidence related to the commission of offences under this Act
for the purpose of inspection or taking legal action which shall not exceed one hundred and
eighty days;
(5)     order a trustee or any person who is authorized to collect or process the data of a
trustee including its director, officer, employee and auditor to testify, deliver, or present
accounts, documents, seals or other evidence related to the trust business;
(6)     order any persons who have known any related actions or facts and may be useful
in the execution of the duties of the competent officer to testify, deliver, or present
accounts, documents, evidence or any objects related to, or necessary for, the execution of
the duties of the competent officer.

After having entered and inspected under subsection (1) or (2) or undertaken the search
under subsection (3), if it has not been completed, the competent officer may continue such
inspection or search into the night or beyond the business hours of such place.

In the execution of duties under subsection (1) or (2), the competent officer shall not take
any act in the nature of a threat or search under the Criminal Procedure Code. In the case
under subsection (3), the search warrant is required unless there is a reasonable ground to
believe that by the time the search warrant is obtained, the document or evidence may be
relocated, concealed, destroyed, or deformed, then the search, seizures, or attachment of
documents or evidence relating to the commission of offences shall be undertaken without
the search warrant. The search shall, however, comply with the search procedure under the
Criminal Procedure Code and shall not be undertaken after sunset unless such period is
business hours of such place.

The exercise of powers of the competent officer under the first paragraph shall be carried
out against the person who is directly involved in the matter under inspection and for
subsection (2), (3), (5) or (6) shall require prior approval from the SEC Office and in case
of subsection (5) or (6), the competent officer shall specify a reasonable period for
complying with the order to such person.

SECTION 63 Where it is necessary to obtain computed data for the execution of his
duties, a competent officer shall request the competent officer under the law relating to
Computer Related Crime to undertake any actions to obtain such computed data which
shall be deemed to be evidence under this Act.

SECTION 64 In the execution of duties of a competent officer, relevant persons shall
provide reasonable assistance.

SECTION 65 In the execution of his duties, a competent officer shall present his
identification card to the person involved.

The identification card of the competent officer shall be in the form specified by the
Minister.

SECTION 66 In the execution of his duties under this Act, the competent officer shall be
an officer under the Penal Code.




                                                                                                15
                                                                     UNOFFICIAL


                                       Chapter 8
              Sanctions, Statute of Limitation and Settlement Committee
                                  _________________

                                       Division 1
                                  Administrative Sanction
                                     _____________

SECTION 67 The administrative sanctions are as follows:
(1)    probation;
(2)    administrative fine;
(3)    public reprimand;
(4)    restriction to operate trust business;
(5)     suspension of trust business operation for a specified period, with regard to
particular or all trust instruments;
(6)    revocation of approval.

SECTION 68 In the imposition of administrative fine, the amount of such fine shall not
exceed one million baht per count.

In cases where the person subject to the administrative fine under the first paragraph fails to
pay such administrative fine, the provisions governing the administrative enforcement
under the Administrative Procedure Act shall apply mutatis mutandis.

SECTION 69 The following persons shall have the power to impose administrative
sanctions:
(1)    the SEC Office shall have the power to impose administrative sanctions under
Section 67(1) or (2);
(2)    the administrative panel under Section 72 shall have the power to impose
administrative sanctions under Section 67(1), (2), (3) or (4);
(3)     the SEC shall have the power to impose administrative sanctions under Section
67(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (6).

In the ordering of the administrative sanctions under Section 67, the competent authority
shall have the power to impose one or several sanctions and shall also have the power to
order the subjected person to undertake or refrain from undertaking any action in order to
rectify or prevent any repetitive violation or noncompliance with the Act, rules, orders or
conditions specified under this Act.

SECTION 70 Any trustee undertaking the following acts shall be subject to the
administrative sanctions under Section 67:
(1)    fails to pay partial or total fees as specified by Section 8(2);
(2)    contravenes or fails to comply with Section 25, Section 26, the first paragraph of
Section 30, Section 31, Section 32, Section 33, Section 34, Section 37, Section 38, Section
39, Section 40, Section 42, Section 52, Section 53, Section 57 or the first paragraph of
Section 59, or contravenes or fails to comply with the rules, directives, conditions,

                                                                                            16
                                                                   UNOFFICIAL


procedures or details issued under Section 21, Section 31, the third paragraph of Section
41, the fifth paragraph of Section 53, Section 56, Section 58, the third paragraph or fourth
paragraph of Section 59 or Section 60;
(3)    obstructs or fails to give assistance to a beneficiary who inspects book of trust
property under Section 47.

SECTION 71 In cases where a trustee commits an offence under Section 70, the director,
manager or any person responsible for the operation of a trustee, shall be subject to the
administrative sanctions under Section 67, unless it can be proven that he has no
involvement with the commission of offence by the trustee.

SECTION 72 One or several administrative panels shall be established, provided that each
panel shall comprise no more than five persons appointed by the SEC.

The qualification of panelists and the procedure of appointment of panelists under the first
paragraph shall be in compliance with the rules as specified in the notification of the SEC.

SECTION 73 The SEC Office shall gather the facts relating to the commission of an
offence which falls under the administrative sanctions and shall also have the power to
exercise an initial consideration in order to take any of the following actions:
(1)    if it is considered that the type of administrative sanctions to be imposed on such
alleged person falls within the SEC Office’s authority, the SEC Office shall consider the
imposition of such sanction;
(2)    if it is considered that the type of administrative sanctions to be imposed on such
alleged person falls within the authority of the administrative panel or the SEC, the SEC
Office shall refer such matter to the administrative panel or the SEC, as the case may be, to
consider the imposition of such sanction.

SECTION 74 In the ordering of an administrative sanction, the competent authority shall
take into consideration the circumstantial factors constituting the action, damage resulted
from such action together with level of the sanction to be imposed on the subjected person
in accordance with the rules as specified in the notification of the SEC.


SECTION 75 Subject to the Administrative Procedure Act, the consideration and the
issuance of the administrative sanction order shall comply with the rules as specified in the
notification of the SEC.

SECTION 76 Any trustee, director, manager or person responsible for the operation of
trustee shall have the right to file an appeal with the SEC against the administrative
sanctions ordered by the SEC Office or the administrative panel within thirty days from the
date when such order is received, the procedure of which shall be in accordance with the
rules as specified in the notification of the SEC.

The consideration and adjudication of appeals under the first paragraph shall be made in
accordance with the rules as specified in the notification of the SEC.

The appeal under the first paragraph shall in no way suspend the execution of the
administrative sanctions ordered by the SEC Office or the administrative panel.

                                                                                             17
                                                                    UNOFFICIAL



The contest against the administrative sanction order or adjudication of the SEC shall be
filed with the Administrative Court of First Instance.


                                        Division 2
                                    Criminal Sanction
                                  ____________________

SECTION 77 Any person undertaking business in a manner similar to trust business
without obtaining approval under Section 54 shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding ten years or a fine not exceeding one million baht or both and a further fine not
exceeding ten thousand baht for every day during which the contravention continues.

SECTION 78 Any person, without obtaining approval for operating trust business, using
name, describing or advertising itself as a trustee or any other word of the same meaning
shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding
three hundred thousand baht or both and a further fine not exceeding ten thousand baht for
everyday until such person discontinues such acts, unless the person has the right to use
such name, description or advertisement under other Acts.

SECTION 79 Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with the administrative
sanctions under Section 67(4) or (5) shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three years or a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand baht or both and a
further fine of ten thousand baht for every day during which the contravention continues.

SECTION 80 Any person who gives false testimony to the competent officer, if the false
testimony is material to the investigation or the proceeding under this Act, shall be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or a fine not exceeding one hundred
thousand baht, or both.

If a person gives false testimony to the competent office is a trustee, director, manager or
any person responsible for the operation of such trustee shall be liable to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding two years or a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand baht, or both
unless it can be proven that such person has no involvement with the commission of such
offence.

SECTION 81 Any person who obstructs or fails to comply with the order of or fails to
give assistance to the competent officer who executes his duty under Section 62 shall be
liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand baht, or both.

Where the actions under the first paragraph amount to use of violence or a threat to use
violence, such person shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or
a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand baht, or both.

SECTION 82 Any person who removes, damages, destroys or renders useless any seal or
mark which the competent officer has stamped or affixed on any object in the execution of
his duties under Section 62 as evidence for the attachment or the keeping of such object
shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or a fine not exceeding
three hundred thousand baht, or both.

                                                                                            18
                                                                     UNOFFICIAL



SECTION 83 Any person who damages, destroys, conceals, takes away or loses, or
renders useless any property or document which the competent officer has attached, kept or
ordered to be delivered as evidence under Section 62, and regardless of whether or not the
competent officer would keep such property or document himself or would order such
person or other persons to deliver or to keep it, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding three years or a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand baht, or both.

SECTION 84 An auditor under Section 59 who makes a false report shall be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or a fine not exceeding three hundred
thousand baht, or both.

SECTION 85 Any director, manager, staff, employee, agent or person appointed to
manage a trust dishonestly fails to perform his duties and causes damage to trust property
shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or a fine not exceeding
two million baht, or both.

SECTION 86 Any director, manager, officer, employee, agent or person appointed to
manage a trust dishonestly misappropriates trust property for himself or a third party shall
be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or a fine not exceeding two
million baht, or both.

SECTION 87 Any director, manager, officer, employee, agent or person appointed to
manage a trust damages, destroys, causes depreciation in value or render useless any trust
property shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or a fine not
exceeding two million baht, or both.

SECTION 88 Any director, manager, officer, employee, agent or person appointed to
manage trust property commits, or permits another to perform, the following acts:
(1)    damage, destroy, alter, abridge or falsify accounts, documents or evidence relating
to management of a trust;
(2)   make false entries or fail to enter any material statements into accounting sheets or
documents relating to management of a trust;
(3)    keep incomplete, incorrect, out-of-date or inaccurate accounts; or
(4)    certify the correctness and completeness of the statement made under Section 26,
which is false.

If the actions under the first paragraph are done or permitted to be done to deceitfully
deprive a trustee or beneficiaries of their rightful benefits or to deceive any person, shall be
liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or a fine not exceeding two
million baht, or both.

SECTION 89 Any person who causes other persons to commit offences under Section 80,
Section 81, Section 82, Section 83, Section 84, Section 85, Section 86, Section 87 or
Section 88 whether by way of instruction, force, threat, employment, aiding or abetting, or
by any other means, shall be liable to the penalties as provided in such provisions.




                                                                                              19
                                                                     UNOFFICIAL


SECTION 90 Any person who does any act to assist or facilitate other persons to commit
offences under Section 80, Section 81, Section 82, Section 83, Section 84, Section 85,
Section 86, Section 87 or Section 88, whether before or at the time of the commission of
the offences, and even though the person committing the offences is not aware of such
assistance or facilitation, shall be liable to the penalties as provided in such provisions.

SECTION 91 In performing the audit work on the account of a trustee, either as the
appointed auditor of a trustee or as a person allowed to conduct the audit work of trustee, if
the auditor discovers any suspicious circumstance that any director, manager, officer,
employee, agent or person appointed to manage trust property has committed an offence
under Section 85, Section 86, Section 87, or Section 88, the auditor shall notify the SEC
Office of the circumstance of such offence.

Any auditor who contravenes or fails to comply with the first paragraph shall be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or a fine not exceeding one hundred
thousand baht, or both.

SECTION 92 Any person, who learns of the information of another person in the
execution of his power or the performance of his duty under this Act which is confidential
information or which should not be disclosed under normal circumstances and discloses
such information to another person, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year or a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand baht, or both.

The provision of the first paragraph shall not apply to disclosure in the following cases:
(1)    disclosure in the execution of his power or the performance of his duty;
(2)    disclosure for the purpose of investigation or trial;
(3)    disclosure relating to the commission of offences under this Act;
(4)    disclosure for the purpose of rectifying the condition or operation of a trustee;
(5)    disclosure to an auditor of a person approved to undertake trust business;
(6)   disclosure to the authority or the related domestic and international agency as
approved by the SEC Office;
(7)    disclosure upon written consent from the person who is the owner of such
information or the person who has the power to disclose.

Any person, who learns of the information by means of disclosure under subsection (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) of the second paragraph which is confidential information or
which should not be disclosed under normal circumstances and discloses such information
to another person, shall be liable to the penalties as provided in the first paragraph, unless it
is the disclosure under the second paragraph.




                                                                                              20
                                                                  UNOFFICIAL


                                        Division 3
                    Statute of Limitation and Settlement Committee
                                _____________________

SECTION 93 The statute of limitation of any offences under this Division which is subject
to the administrative sanctions shall be expired, should there be no administrative sanction
order within one year from the date when the competent officer determines that such
offences have been committed or within five years from the date of commission of such
offence.

SECTION 94 For the offences under Section 78, the first paragraph of Section 80, the first
paragraph of Section 81, Section 84 and the second paragraph of Section 91 which do not
severely affect a trust, or of which the affected beneficiary is satisfied with the remedy
provided by the wrongdoer, the Settlement Committee appointed by the Minister under the
Securities and Exchange Act shall have the power to settle such offences in accordance
with the rules as specified in the notification of the SEC.

When a case has been settled by the Settlement Committee and the alleged person has paid
the fine as determined by the Settlement Committee within the period of time so specified,
the right to bring a criminal lawsuit on ground of such offences against such alleged person
shall be ceased.


Countersigned by:
General Surayuth Julanont
Prime Minister




Remark: The reasons for the promulgation of this Act are as follows: At present, the forms
and methods of fund raising to undertake transactions in the capital market in Thailand are
restricted. Such condition is an obstacle to the development of the capital market. It is,
therefore, expedient to use the legal principle of trust as another instrument to make fund
raising efficient and avoid problems that may arise from such action. It is thus necessary to
enact this Act.



                                                                                          21
